[Workers] Slackbot revision (#2207)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: products/workers/src/content/tutorials/build-a-slackbot/index.md

## Overview

In this tutorial, you will build a [Slack](https://slackhq.com) bot using [Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com). Your bot will make use of GitHub webhooks to send messages to a Slack channel when issues are updated or created, and allow users to write a command to look up GitHub issues from inside Slack.

![Build a Slack Application](./media/issue-command.png)

This tutorial is recommended for people who are familiar with writing web applications. If you have built an application with tools like [Node](https://nodejs.org) and [Express](https://expressjs.com), this project will feel very familiar to you. If you are new to writing web applications or have wanted to build something like a Slack bot in the past, but were intimidated by deployment or configuration, Workers will be an easy way for you to focus on writing code and shipping projects.

> If you would like to see the code, or how the bot works in an actual Slack channel, before proceeding with this tutorial, you can access the final version of the codebase [on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-slack-bot). From GitHub, you can add your own Slack API keys and deploy it to your own Slack channels for testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to see the code or how the bot works in an actual Slack channel before proceeding with this tutorial, you can access the final version of the codebase [on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-slack-bot). From GitHub, you can add your own Slack API keys and deploy it to your own Slack channels for testing.
```

## Set up Slack

This tutorial assumes that you already have a Slack account, and the ability to create and manage Slack applications.

### Configure a Slack application

To post messages from your Cloudflare Worker into a Slack channel, you will need to create an application in Slack’s UI. To do this, go to Slack’s API section, at [api.slack.com/apps](https://api.slack.com/apps), and select **Create New App**.

![Create a Slack App](./media/create-a-slack-app.png)

Slack applications have many features. You will make use of two of them, Incoming Webhooks and Slash Commands, to build your Worker-powered Slack bot.

#### Incoming Webhook

Incoming Webhooks are URLs that you can use to send messages to your Slack channels. Your incoming webhook will be paired with GitHub’s webhook support to send messages to a Slack channel whenever there are updates to issues in a given repository. You will see the code in more detail as you build your application. First, create a Slack webhook:

1. On the sidebar of Slack's UI, select **Incoming Webhooks**. 

> 2. In **Webhook URLs for your Workspace** > select **Add New Webhook to Workspace**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In **Webhook URLs for your Workspace**, select **Add New Webhook to Workspace**. 
```

> 3. On the following screen, select the channel that you want your webhook to send messages to (you can select a room, like #general or #code, or be DMed directly by our Slack bot when the webhook is called.) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the following screen, select the channel that you want your webhook to send messages to (you can select a room, like #general or #code, or be messaged directly by our Slack bot when the webhook is called.) 
```

4. Authorize the new webhook URL.

> After authorizing your webhook URL, you will be returned to the **Incoming Webhooks** page and will be able to view your new webhook URL. You will add this into our Workers code later. Next, you will add the second component to your Slack bot: a Slash Command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After authorizing your webhook URL, you will be returned to the **Incoming Webhooks** page and can view your new webhook URL. You will add this into our Workers code later. Next, you will add the second component to your Slack bot: a Slash Command.
```

![Slack Incoming Webhook](./media/slack-incoming-webhook.png)

#### Slash Command

A Slash Command in Slack is a custom-configured command that can be attached to a URL request. For example, if you configured `/weather <zip>`, Slack would make an HTTP POST request to a configured URL, passing the text `<zip>` to get the weather for a specified zip code. In your application, you will use the `/issue` command to look up GitHub issues using the [GitHub API](https://developer.github.com). Typing `/issue cloudflare/wrangler#1` will send the text `cloudflare/wrangler#1` in a HTTP POST request to our application, which the application will use to find the [relevant GitHub issue](https://github.com/cloudflare/wrangler/issues/1).

1. On the Slack sidebar, select **Slash Commands**.
2. Create your first slash command. 

For our example, you will use the command `/issue`. The request URL should be the `/lookup` path on your application URL: for instance, if your application will be hosted at `https://myworkerurl.com`, the Request URL should be `https://myworkerurl.com/lookup`.

![Create Slack Command](./media/create-slack-command.png)

### Configure your GitHub Webhooks

> Your Cloudflare Workers application will be able to handle incoming requests from Slack. It should also be able to receive events directly from GitHub. If a Github issue is created or updated, you can make use of GitHub webhooks to send that event to your Workers application, and post a corresponding message in Slack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Cloudflare Workers application will be able to handle incoming requests from Slack. It should also be able to receive events directly from GitHub. If a Github issue is created or updated, you can make use of GitHub webhooks to send that event to your Workers application and post a corresponding message in Slack.
```

To configure a webhook:

1. Go to your Github repository's **Settings** > **Webhooks** > **Add webhook**.

If you have a repository like `https://github.com/user/repo`, you can access the **Webhooks** page directly at `https://github.com/user/repo/settings/hooks`.

2. Set the Payload URL to the `/webhook` path on your Worker URL.  

> For example, if your Worker will be hosted at `https://myworkerurl.com`, the Payload URL should be `https://myworkerurl.com/webhook`. 

Reviewer 2: These will need to be indented with spaces to prevent the numbered list from breaking. I think the current layout will be:

```
1. text

paragraph

1. text

paragraph
```

where each numbered item ends up starting with `1.` again.

Ident the paragraphs w/ 4 spaces, or use a `<br>` to force a line break; eg: `2. Set the Payload URL to the `/webhook` path on your Worker URL. <br>For example, if your Worker...`

Author: @lukeed i ran it on local and it seemed fine?

Reviewer 2: Cool, different parsing rules then I guess. Used to GitHub :)

> 3. Select *application/json* in the **Content type** dropdown menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the **Content type** dropdown, select **application/json**.
```

> The **Content type** for your payload can either be a URL-encoded payload (`application/x-www-form-urlencoded`), or JSON (`application/json`). For the purpose of this tutorial and to make parsing the payload sent to our application, select JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Content type** for your payload can either be a URL-encoded payload (`application/x-www-form-urlencoded`) or JSON (`application/json`). For the purpose of this tutorial and to make parsing the payload sent to our application, select JSON.
```

4. In **Which events would you like to trigger this webhook?**, select **Let me select individual events**.

GitHub webhooks allow you to specify which events you would like to have sent to your webhook. By default, the webhook will send `push` events from your repository. For the purpose of this tutorial, you will choose **Let me select individual events**. 

5. Select the **Issues** event type. 

There are many different event types that can be enabled for your webhook. Selecting **Issues** will send every issue-related event to your webhook, including when issues are opened, edited, deleted, and more. If you would like to expand your Slack bot application in the future, you can select more of these events after the tutorial.

6. Select **Add webhook**.

![Create a GitHub Webhook](./media/new-github-webhook.png)

> When your webhook is created, it will attempt to send a test payload to your application. Since your application is not actually deployed yet, leave the configuration as-is.  You will later return to your repository to actually create, edit, and close some issues to ensure that the the webhook is working once your application is deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your webhook is created, it will attempt to send a test payload to your application. Since your application is not actually deployed yet, leave the configuration as it is.  You will later return to your repository to create, edit, and close some issues to ensure that the the webhook is working once your application is deployed.
```

## Build

To build your Slack bot on Cloudflare Workers, you will build up your application file-by-file, separating different parts of the application and using modern JS tooling like ES modules, NPM packages, and [async/await](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function) functions to put together your application.

The router template includes a class, `Router`, that is included to help developers with the common task of associating “routes” in your application (for instance, `/users`, or `/about`) with “functions”. In this tutorial, there are two routes/function handlers that you need to define:

1. The `lookup` function will take requests from Slack (sent when a user uses the `/issue` command), and look up the corresponding issue using the GitHub API. This function will be a `PUT` request to `/lookup`.

2. The `webhook` function will be called when an issue changes on GitHub, via a configured webhook. This function will be a `POST` request to `/webhook`.

### Handling requests

> Inside of `index.js`, import the `Router` class, and use it to update the `handleRequest` function:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inside of `index.js`, import the `Router` class and use it to update the `handleRequest` function:
```

}
```

First, import the `Router` class from `router.js`. 

> In `handleRequest`, instantiate a new instance of `Router`, setting it to the variable `r`. The `Router` class makes use of a few functions to allow you to quickly and easily set up request handling. The `post` method, as you might expect, takes in a path string, and a function handler, to say “when a client sends an HTTP `POST` to the path `/lookup`, call the `lookup` function”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `handleRequest`, instantiate a new instance of `Router`, setting it to the variable `r`. The `Router` class makes use of a few functions to quickly and easily handle requests. The `post` method takes in a path string and a function handler. This indicates “when a client sends an HTTP `POST` to the path `/lookup`, call the `lookup` function”.
```

}
```

> One additional parameter passed into the response is `response_type`. By default, responses to slash commands are ephemeral, meaning that they are only seen by the user who writes the slash command. Passing a `response_type` of `in_channel`, as seen above, will cause the response to appear for all users in the channel. If you would like the messages to remain private, removing that line will cause `response_type` to default to `ephemeral`.

Author: @signalnerve is this saying "Remove `in_channel` and replace it with `ephemeral` to make messages private and only visible to the user who wrote the slash command."

Reviewer 3: Close - if you remove `in_channel`, it will default to `ephemeral` if nothing is provided

}
```

The constant `SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL` represents the Slack Webhook URL that you created all the way back in the [Incoming Webhook](/tutorials/build-a-slackbot#incoming-webhook) section of this tutorial. 

<Aside type="warning">

> This webhook allows developers to post directly to your Slack channel, so it should be kept secret. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since this webhook allows developers to post directly to your Slack channel, keep it secret. 
```

## Resources

In this tutorial, you built and published a Cloudflare Workers application that can respond to GitHub webhook events, and allow GitHub API lookups within Slack. If you would like to review the full source code for this application, you can find the repository [on GitHub](https://github.com/signalnerve/workers-slack-bot).

> If you want to get started building your own projects, refer to the quick-start templates provided in the [Template Gallery](/examples).

Author: @signalnerve I don’t think this section exists anymore? Should we change to ‘example templates’?

Reviewer 3: should be a link to Quickstarts: https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/get-started/quickstarts
